Added a safer way to access elements in a vector (#1014)
Codecademy/docs: content/cpp/concepts/vectors/vectors.md

  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> 

Reviewer: Under the `Tags` (lines # 7-9), let's add `'Data Structures'`.

#include <vector>
```

> During the creation of a C++ `vector`, the data type of its elements must be specified. Once the `vector` is created, the type cannot be changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the creation of a C++ vector, the data type of its elements must be specified. Once the vector is created, the type cannot be changed.
```

> 

Reviewer: On line # 37, let's fix the typo by changing "Intitialize" to "Initialize".

## Index

> An index refers to an element’s position within an ordered list, like a `vector` or an array. The first element has an index of 0.

Reviewer: For this specific line I would make this suggestion since this line mentions arrays for the first time:

```suggestion
An index refers to an element’s position within an ordered list, like a vector or an [array](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/cpp/arrays). The first element has an index of 0.
```

std::cout << order[2];
```

### `.at()`

The `.at()` function provides a safer way of accessing elements in a vector. It performs bounds checking on the vector and will throw an [error](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/cpp/errors) if there is an attempt to access an element that is out of bounds:

```cpp
// First element
std::cout << order.at(0);

// Last element
std::cout << order.at(2);

// Out of bounds
std::cout << order.at(100);
```

The code above will print the following error:

```shell
terminate called after throwing an instance of 'std::out_of_range'
what():  vector::_M_range_check: __n (which is 100) >= this->size() (which is 3)
Aborted (core dumped)
```

## Adding Elements

There are two different ways to insert elements into the vector.

### `.push_back()`

> This method pushes elements to the back of a `vector`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method pushes elements to the back of a vector:
```

std::cout << order[2];
```

A safer way of accessing elements in a vector can be achieved by using the `.at()` function.

> This function performs bounds checking on the vector and will throw an error if you are trying to access an element that is out of bounds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This function performs bounds checking on the vector and will throw an error if you are trying to access an element that is out of bounds.

```

std::cout << order[2];
```

> A safer way of accessing elements in a vector can be achieved by using the `.at()` function.
> This function performs bounds checking on the vector and will throw an error if you are trying to access an element that is out of bounds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `.at()`

The `.at()` function provides a safer way of accessing elements in a vector. This function performs bounds checking on the vector and will throw an error if there is an attempt to access an element that is out of bounds.
```

```cpp
// First element
std::cout << order.at(0);

// Last element
std::cout << order.at(2);

// Out of bounds
std::cout << order.at(100);

> 
> // terminate called after throwing an instance of 'std::out_of_range'
> // what():  vector::_M_range_check: __n (which is 100) >= this->size() (which is 3)
> // Aborted (core dumped)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The code above will print the following error:

```

Reviewer: And then let's move the comments on lines # 72 - 74 to their own \```shell snippet, like this:

```shell
terminate called after throwing an instance of 'std::out_of_range'
  what():  vector::_M_range_check: __n (which is 100) >= this->size() (which is 3)
Aborted (core dumped)
```

## Codebyte Example

> To create a vector named `grade` with 3 items and then insert elements to the last of the vector using `.push_back()` and `.insert() functions`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a vector named `grade` with three items and then insert elements to the last of the vector using `.push_back()` and `.insert()` functions:
```

Generally if the quantity of something is less than 10, we should spell the number out.
